3.	Gameplay

3.1	Overview

Basically ***GAME NAME*** is a real time strategy (RTS) game. As usually in this genre, it includes everything from resource management to building up a military base and fighting the enemies. However, it has a whole new unit control and combat system. Instead of building an army, each side has to build massive war machines. These machines, known as mechs, are provided with the highest technology available, making only one of them worth of an army. As the whole war is wrapped around these machines and their technology, controlling the machine becomes an essential part of the game.

3.2	Gameplay description

From the strategical point of view, game is about gathering and managing resources, building a base, developing technologies and constructing the war machines. This is called the RTS mode. Player observes the world from top-down perspective. Only small part of the map fits to the screen, and the screen can be scrolled to view different areas of the map. Minimap can be used to get the general idea of the whole map. Unknown areas are shown as black, and has to be explored before seeing them. Areas far from buildings and units are covered by fog (fog of war). Enemy units can't be seen under the fog, but the rest of the map is seen as it was before.

There are three types of resources - electric power, metals and chemicals. Metals and chemicals for the industry can be collected from the rich occurrences of the otherwise bare ground by building distribution channels. Electricity can be produced with nuclear factories or from nigth storms by storing energy from the lighnings. Electricity is needed to maintain the functioning of the base. Mech contains internal source of power, and doesn't need resources in order to operate. Metals and chemicals are needed for buildings, machines, technologies and upgrades. Buildings and technoligies may also require other buildings and technologies (see 3.3.3).

Simple commands can be given to mechs from RTS mode. These commands and their execution depends on the AI technology level of the mech. Mech without AI technology has to be controlled by hand, and it doesn't have any ability to avoid obstacles. On the other hand, mech provided with the highest AI technology is able to function with just one attack or defence command.

Full control of the mechs happens from the first person perspective (FPS mode). Instead of giving commands, player is able to operate the mech as accurately as possible. This includes moving, turning, aiming, weapon selection, firing and some other actions (see 3.3.2). Most of the important battles are made in FPS mode.

3.3	Rules
[Describe the rules of the game. Define all game objects, concepts, their behaviors, and how they relate to one another.]
This chapter explains the rules and core mechanics of the game. Implementation details are not covered here. All constants and properties required for balancing the game are left outside.

3.3.1	Mech actions
From RTS mode, following commands can be given to mech:
	- Move
	- Stop
	- Patrol
	- Select weapon
	- Attack to target or use special weapon
	- Build power distribution system (see 3.2.2.4)

Mech can be fully controlled in FPS mode. This includes:
	- Moving forward
	- Turning
	- Turning the upper part of the mech, including vision and weapons
	- Aiming??????????????????????
	- All actions from RTS mode

Mech has following automatic operation modes (enabled by AI technologies, see 3.3.3):
	- None
	- Autoaim
	- Autofire
	- Scout
	- Attack
	- Defence

3.3.2	Buildings and technology tree
Game contains one set of buildings and technologies for player to use. However, different sets are used for enemies in single player game. These sets is called technology trees. Technology tree consists of buildings, and dependence relationships between buildings and technologies. Because technology trees are fully configurable by tools (see 7.1), and has to be balanced by tweaking, they are not defined in this document. However, there is several buildings and relationships common to all technology trees. Each building is defined by following properties:
	- Cost in metals
	- Cost in chemicals
	- Power consumption
	- Hitpoints
	- Collision rectangles
	- Audiovisual appearance
	- Depencence relationships

3.2.2.1	Command center
Command center is the main building of the game. It is required to build any other buildings. Resource distribution channels (see 3.2.2.2) must be connected to the command center in order to deliver resources.

3.2.2.2	Resource gathering
Each technology tree needs a buildings for producing energy. These buildings use negative power consumption property to indicate power producing. Each of these buildings increase the power storage capacity. Additional flag (and possibly animations) are needed for buildings producing energy from lightnings.

Distribution channels are needed for every technology tree as well. They are sort of a pipes from Command center to the metal or chemical occurrences. For collision checking, channel is considered as rough terrain (see movement area, 3.3.3). Channel consists of blocks, but visual appearance is a contunuous pipe. Two channels can be connected, and it's possible to have branches. Block of the channel can be destroyed as any other building, and unconnected channel doesn't deliver resources.

3.2.2.3	Dock yard
Place for building, reparing and upgrading mechs. When mech is ordered to move to the Dock yard, it walks to the center of the building. After that it can be repaired or upgraded, if any upgrades are available and it has all required upgrades installed. Implementation note: repairing the mech should be much cheaper than building a new one.

3.2.2.4	Defence of the base
Each technology tree has special kind of buildings for defence, which are automatically firing at enemies nearby. Weapon is defined by additional property. Other important defence building is wall, cheap building with high hitpoints. While it's not necessary for all technology trees, it should be very common.

3.3.3	Technologies

3.3.4	Weapons

3.4	Goals, victory and end conditions

3.4.1	Goals
[Describe the goals (in each game mode).]
Primary goal is to eliminate enemies by destroying all of their buildings. This can be achieved by developing powerful war machines, mechs, and defeating enemy in a battle. As simple as that might sound, the way to the victory may not be easy. Being the best requires both tactical and strategical skills, as well as fast reactions. Don't count on your luck, there is no room for accidences.

3.4.2	Subgoals
[Describe the subgoals (in each game mode).]
To complete single player mission, player has to accomplish mission objectives. Each mission may include several types of objectives, and the objectives can change during the mission...

3.4.3	Goal structures
[Describe the goal structures (in each game mode).]

3.4.4	Scoring system
[Describe the scoring system (in each game mode).]

3.4.5	Victory conditions
[Describe the victory conditions (in each game mode).]

3.4.6	End conditions
[Describe the end conditions (in each game mode).]

3.5	Controls and feedback
[Map out the game procedures and controls: what does the player have to do? Use visual aids like control tables and flowcharts, along with detailed descriptions.]

3.5.1	Interfaces
[Create wireframes for every interface the artists will need to create. Along with each wireframe should be a description of how it functions. Detail out the various stages for each interface.]

3.5.2	Feedback
[Describe ways of how the player gets feedback from his actions.]

3.6	Modes and other features
[Describe the different modes or other features that will affect the implementation of the gameplay.]

3.6.1	Multiplayer experience
[What community related features are there? How does communication between players take place?]

3.6.2	Saving and resuming
[Explain how the game situation can be saved and resumed.]

3.7	Levels
[Describe the designs for each level. Describe in what ways the levels differ. What transitions are there between levels (e.g. cut-scenes)? If there are no levels as such, describe ways in which the player can get a breather.]
[Document with a flowchart all the areas and screens that will need to be created. This flowchart should be an appendix to this document.]
