


Mecha
-----

Interstellar travel has been possible for decades now due to the advanced technology of the human race. Competition over resources and warfare have left the planet Earth and spread over the whole universe, where fierce wars are being fought over the control of many star systems. Large intergalactical corporations employ millions of people all around the universe. War industry is living its brightest time of the history.

Infiny is the leading Technology Corporation in the galaxy of the Milky Way. It produces everything from war machines to space stations. Although it's the single biggest weapon manufacturer with good reputation, Infiny's operations have spawned rumours of suspicious and unethical methods that is uses to achieve it's goals. On it's way to financial leadership of the galaxy, Infiny has created many enemies. A lot of people is ready to strike this huge techo-giant down with any means necessary. The most organized rebellion group, Furies, has small branches in star systems near the center of the Milky Way. On Proxima, which is a double starred system with five planets, there has been peaceful existence of mining communities for a long time. Only one of the five planets has life on it. This planet is full of different materials, such as iron and titanium. Combined with average conditions to mine these resources, this planet has woken the interest of Infiny to establish bases all around the surface. This planet is called Platonia.

Because Platonia has no atmosphere, no human can walk on the surface without proper equipment. And because of the difficult weather conditions, humans have created a better way of building things and moving around the planet, Robots. They are used in everything. First of there robots, Mech One, was build twenty years ago. It was made for walking only and was small in size. As time passed by, these Mechs became larger and their usage expanded rapidly. Not only could they be used in walking great distances, but also they were equipped with weapons and instruments. It didn't take much time for Furies, the rebellion group, to find out that these Mechs, created with Infinys technology, could easily be modified to help their own cause. For five years now, Furies has caused a lot of damage to Infiny with small attacks on it's bases and mining facilities. As the attacks has grown bigger and bigger, Infiny has become more determined to end this weak existence of Furies on the planet Platonia of Proxima system. Infiny created an anti rebellion group to take control of everything.


